Data "cookbook" for project Getting and Cleaning Data course project:

The tidy_data.txt data file is a text file, containing space-separated values, created by getting and transforming data from web downloaded .

The first row contains the names of the variables, which are listed and described in the Variables section, and the following rows contain the values of these variables.

Variables 

Each row contains, for a given subject and activity, 79 averaged values obtained from Cell Phone.

Identifiers 

subject

Subject identifier, integer, ranges from 1 to 30.

activity

Activity identifier:

WALKING: subject was walking
WALKING_UPSTAIRS: subject was walking upstairs
WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS: subject was walking downstairs
SITTING: subject was sitting
STANDING: subject was standing
LAYING: subject was laying
Average of measurements 

All measurements are floating-point values, normalised and bounded within [-1,1].

Data is obtained from following location in zip file type:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip.

The following transformations were made to the source data:


The training and test sets were merged to create one data set.
The measurements on the mean and standard deviation (i.e. signals containing the strings mean and std) were extracted for each measurement, and the others were discarded.
The activity identifiers (originally coded as integers between 1 and 6) were replaced with descriptive activity names.
The variable names were replaced with descriptive variable names (e.g. tBodyAcc-mean()-X was expanded to timeDomainBodyAccelerometerMeanX), using the following set of rules:
Special characters (i.e. (, ), and -) were removed
The initial f and t were expanded to frequencyDomain and timeDomain respectively.
Acc, Gyro, Mag, Freq, mean, and std were replaced with Accelerometer, Gyroscope, Magnitude, Frequency, Mean, and StandardDeviation respectively.
Replaced (supposedly incorrect as per source's features_info.txt file) BodyBody with Body.
The final data set was created with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
The collection of the source data and the transformations listed above were implemented by the runanalysis.R R script.
